So I'll just quickly clean up all my products here because there I'll store it in an incorrect way due
to, well how I worked with the files in the past so
let me remove all these products and now let me go back and here in my application in post add products,
in my admin controller, there I now want to handle that file correctly.
So first of all image here will be an object of this format with information about the file and where
it was stored,
so where the physical file can be found and now I want to save that.
First of all, I will check if image is set because if it's undefined, then that means that multer declined
the incoming file.
So if this is not set, if it is undefined, well then I want to return a response with status 422 because
I then have an invalid input, so I want to return that response,
add product, editing false has error
is true
where I pass in my old data, not the file however, only title, price and description and the error message is
attached file is not an image, let's say
and validation errors can be an empty array,
I won't mark anything as read. With this change in place,
we can already validate this.
If I now try to upload an image, I succeed,
so I don't get my same form again. If I choose a PDF though, then I get attached file is not an image.
So this is working and let's now also work on the case that we do have an image and that we want
to store it.
Now the file already gets stored on our file system
and this is how you should store it,
you should not store data like this in the database, files should not be stored in a database,
they are too big,
it's too inefficient to store them in a database and query them from there. Store files on a file system
as we are doing it here
but of course you need to store something in a database,
you need to store the path to the file,
right
and that is something you can construct here with the information given to you in the file object and
you can then simply pass that data to the database.
So if we made it after our entire validation here, I know that I have a valid file and valid input data
and then I'll create my image
url again and in that image url,
I will use my image data which is that file object we get from multer
and there we have information like the file path
and it's this path that is interesting to me of course because this is the path that a file on my operating system,
it is the path I therefore want to use later on when fetching that image.
So this path is what I'll store here in the image url and therefore I can store image
url in the database again.
So if we now save all of that and I do select a valid image here and I hit add product, this now works
again,
displaying it does not work we'll work on this in a second but saving does work and
if I have a look into my database for the products, you see this is the part that was stored.
Now this is looking good
but of course here if we inspect this, we see the image is not really rendered because it can't find this,
it fails to fetch images and then well this name and in the network tab we indeed find a 404 error when
the browser sends the request for this image.
So now that we are able to store data,
let's also learn how we can serve data, well almost before we serve it,
let's work on editing this because this is another path which won't work correctly right now.
Right now when we load the added page, what we do is we load the page and we send back the data we need
for displaying it of course.
So that means we render the added product page with product data that includes our image url which
is of course fine but ultimately, here we don't see the url and we don't want to change the url
when editing the product, instead
here we have a new file picker.
Now you can of course configure this to work in any way you want
but here I want to have a behavior where if we choose no file here, we simply keep the old one and we
only overwrite it with a new file
if I do choose a new one here. So to do that, I'll go to post edit product which is where we do handle the
incoming data
and of course here we again can retrieve request file and store that in image constant, just as I'm doing
it here when we add the product, there I'm also retrieving this file extracted by multer.
Multer will do the same for post edit product, so I can extract it there too, store it in an image
and now this image is the thing I need to check. If it is undefined,
then I know no file was saved
and in this case this means I want to keep the old file, by the way the same will be true if I upload
a PDF,
I will simply keep the old image
in that case.
So we don't need to throw an error or return an error message,
though you could of course do that if you want,
if you always want to force a new image
but here what I'll do is instead I'll
first of all edit my validation page which I return and I'll not return the image url here,
we don't need that
just as in post add product, there we also don't need to return that because there is no image url we
render
in our edit page any more
but if we make it past our validation here, when we store the product or when we update the product
I should say, this image url does not exist anymore.
Instead here I want to see if I really need to set that,
so I'll check if image is there, if it's not undefined, in which case I'll set product image
url to image path. So the same logic as I do have it in post add product, there
I also set image url to image path but in post edit product, I do it conditionally and if the
image is undefined, so if no new image was passed, I simply don't set it on the object which I then update
and since I update it
and if I don't set this, I will simply well not update this field and I can prove this to you.
If I update this product here now, I get an invalid value because I forgot to adjust my validation
middleware in the routes folder, for editing the product
I'm still checking for image url to be a url but this field does not exist anymore so we should
remove that from the edit product route validation logic and now if I submit this again,
it just works.
If I now choose a different image though and before I select this, let me quickly show you, if I update my database
here, you'll see that image url did not change.
If I select both too now which is the same image but a different file name and technically, a different
file therefore, I update this
and now if we go to that database and we refresh, we see it set both too.
So now we got that editing option in place too
and now we do handle the file uploads in the way we need to handle them.
But of course handling file uploads is only one thing,
we also want to be able to see that image,
so to download it kind of and that is what I focus on in the next lectures.